#Lab Tasks

For lab tasks from here on out, questions that require exploration and responding to on this markdown page will be in bolded text. You should respond to them directly within this markdown file. Markdown is effectively a plaintext, lighweight markup language that is designed to be converted into HTML; more simply, it's some text and symbols you can put into a document that will turn into pretty HTML.
Tasks that specify work to do without a written response will be bulleted.
If you're ever confused about what you need to do for a given task, ask.

## Part #1: exploring the node.js project
Study the project you have cloned. Run it according to the instrucitons in the README, including running the tests. Answer the following questions by editing this file.  This will give you a chance to play with markdown.

> Protip: Using Google to gain additional knowledge or support your conjectures about how something works is great! It's important that you think about everything and come to an understanding, though, so don't use Google as a scapegoat to get the questions done quickly or you will regret it!

#####What is the purpose of app.js? Explain what happens when a user is trying to access a page "kittens", when a user is trying to access the page "petForm", and when the user submits a form on "petForm". Explain what a "route" is.

> app.js responds to users, in that when users want to go to a certain location (click on a link or some button or type in a web address) it tells the client where to go. When a user tries to access the page kittens, app.js responds and sends the user to a blank page with Page under construction!
 When a user tries to access petForm, it sends them to petForm.html file where they can submit a new pet. When the user submits a pet, app.js gets the name of the pet from the petForm.html and then uses that and the string length  to say "'thePet' String Length: 7".
 A route is a location that a web browser tries to access.

#####What is the contents of the "public" folder? What is each of the html files there and how are they referenced in app.js?

>Our assets folder which contains our images, a css file,a javascript file, and the html files. There is an about page, an index page (basically the home page) and a petForm page. Each of these are references using a "/" and the html file's name.

#####In your project change the message that appears when the user is trying to access the page "kittens". Describe what you did and how it worked.

> Changed the message to "Kittens are fun!" in the app.js file. This changes how the app.js file responds to a request for the kittens page.

#####Also change the message that a user sees when they are trying to find a page that doesn't exist.

>Changed the message to "This page does not exist" in the app.jss file. This changes how the app.js file responds to a requests for non-existent routes.

#####Describe what happens when you submit a form on petForm page. What are the form parameters in petForm? What is the method for the form? Where is the form submission handled in the project? How are parameters extracted? How is the resulting message generated? How is this different from accessing the page petForm the first time (to see the form)?

>The parameters for the petform are name,type,width, and placeholder. The method is post. The form submission is handled in the app.js file. It is extracted by finding the name inside the body inside of the requested page. The resulting message is generated by displaying the extracted name, then a string that says "String length" and then a function
for finding string length is called on the name of the pet. When accesign the page, app.js responds by sending the browser to petForm.html. However, when a form is submitted, it responds by showing the submitted name with details on the string length.

#####Where is client-side Javascript defined? Name file(s) in which it is used.

>It is defined in clientjavascript.js

#####Where is server-side Javascript helper file defined? Where can it be used? Add a function to it and experiment with where you can call this function.

>It is defined in serverjavascript.js, it can be used in app.js file

#####What is the purpose of package.json file? What's in it, and what does it mean?

>The purpose is to give descriptive information, includes authors, names version, tests.

#####What's in .gitgnore file? What's the purpose of it?

>It has files that should be ignored when pushing and pulling github files.

## Part #2: exploring testing

#####Find the testing file, describe where it is located and what it is testing. Run karma (the testing engine) as specified in the Readme and describe results. Do not edit any files at this time.

#####After having set up Travis CI with your forked project, play around the page for your project (build history, settings, branches, etc) and describe at least 3 features you think would be useful when troubleshooting a broken project.

#####What was the build status of your project right after you got everything set up? Use Travis to find any problems, and describe what failed, if anything. (Which files, what lines, why did failure occur, etc.)

#####Fix any problems described in the previous question. Describe how you fixed them. Push your fix to GitHub and post a link to the passing build (from build history) here.

- Study jasmine testing syntax. Think of a Javascript function, describe its behavior by writing tests for it (this is test-driven development, or TDD). Add the function, run the tests. (Actually do this. Don't forget to commit your changes!)

## Part #3: adding a GPA calculator

- Add a page to the project (don't forget to add it to git) that has a form for letter grades and credits for three classes.

- In TDD fashion, add tests for functions needed to compute the GPA and then implement the functions themselves. Note, however, that karma doesn't work with exports, so after you have tested the functions, you would need to create copies of them that you are exporting. This is awkward and will be fixed in subsequent node setups. Also make sure to add the file that you are testing to karma.conf.js.

- Add a route to app.js to display the GPA on the resulting page.

- Add the basic html to the send so that the GPA is displayed as an html page. Don't add too much: later we will be using various libraries to take care of generating html.

- As you are working, don't forget to change drivers in pair-programming, practice TDD, write comments, and make frequent commits. As before, at the end just push all the changes to github.

